---
layout: post
title: "Programming Update"
id: programming-update
comments: true
published: true
tags:
  - books
  - self improvement
---

bq. There is a delight in working in such a tractable medium. The programmer, like the poet, works only slightly removed from pure thought-stuff. He builds his castles in the air, from air, creating by exertion of the imagination. Few media of creation are so flexible, so easy to polish and rework, so readily capable of realizing grand conceptual structures. - The Mythical Man-Month 

I've been reading quite a lot more lately, the above quote being one I just started tonight. Good break when you've hit a snag in a project and need to clear your head a little. Development on personal projects is going pretty well too. The most annoying part though is that I'm trying to do things the _right_ way in a language I've never used before; which makes development agonizingly slow at times. Lots of time reading the documentation and googling for examples, let me tell you. But when it works it's a great feeling. Database design is complete for phase 1, which will not include anywhere near all the features I have planned, but enough to build off. Not really putting a timeframe on the project as whole, just as long as I keep working on it I'm content. Eventually I'll snap a picture of my sticky-note/whiteboard of the sitemap/structure; once I get a new camera. This thursday there's a Ruby On Rails meeting at the "Orlando Java Users Group":http://www.orlandojug.org/ all of us at work are going to check out too, so looking forward to that boosting my motivation a notch or two.